			Subsurface 3.0
			==============

The Subsurface developer team is proud to announce the release of the
latest version of Subsurface.

Subsurface is an open source divelog program that runs on Windows, Mac
and Linux.

With Subsurface the user can download dive information directly from a
large number of supported dive computers. Subsurface is able to track
single- and multi-tank dives using air, Nitrox or TriMix. It displays
a dive profile with all related information, including air consumption
and alarms. It also allows logging of information like weights and
exposure protection used, dive masters and dive buddies and enables
the user to rate dives and provide additional dive notes.

With Subsurface the user can track dive locations including GPS
coordinates (which can also be conveniently entered using a map
interface). Subsurface calculates a wide variety of statistics of the
user's diving and keeps track of information like the user's SAC rate,
partial pressures of O2, N2 and He, calculated deco information, and
many more.

Subsurface allows the user to print out a detailed log book including
dive profiles and other relevant information. The program is localized
in more than a dozen languages and well supported by an active
developer community.

One of the major strengths of Subsurface is its support of a wide range
of dive computers (most common dive computers are supported, a
detailed list is at
http://subsurface.hohndel.org/documentation/supported-dive-computers).
Subsurface can also import existing dive logs from several sources
including MacDive, Suunto DM3, JDiveLog and divelogs.de. Another
strength is its ability to visualize the depth profile (and, if
available, the tank pressure curve) in very innovative ways that give
the user additional information on relative velocity (and momentary
air consumption) during the dive through the coloring of the graphs.


New in this version (compared to Subsurface 2.1):

- Many new divecomputers supported, bugfixes for existing divecomputers
  - Cressi Leonardo, Seemann XP5, Mares Matrix, Mares Puck Pro, Mares
    Nemo Wide 2, Shearwater Petrel, Shearwater Predator, Aeris A300
    AI, Hollis DG03
  - significant improvements for the Heinrichs Weiskamp OSTC
- Significantly improved selection of divecomputers for direct download
- Map display of GPS locations of dives and ability to enter and edit those
- Improved automatic dive numbering
- Data overlay for profile plot (with additional statistics information)
- Zoom function for profile plot
- Dive planner
- Improved printing support
- Improved dive trip handling
- Support for downloading dives from multiple computers (so for example
  both your main and your backup computer)
- Added ability to import existing divelogs from Suunto DM3 (no manual
  unpacking needed anymore), MacDive and divelogs.de
- Lots of features to make tec divers happy:
  - Experimental deco calculation with optional display of a calculated
    ceiling (Buhlmann ZH16 with gradient factors)
  - Display of deco information from some divecomputers that support this
  - TriMix support
  - CCR support (fixed or variable setpoint, on dive computers that support
    this)
  - Optional pO2, pN2 and pHe graphs
  - CNS tracking for supported divecomputers
- Lots of bug fixes


License: GPLv2

Subsurface can be found at http://subsurface.hohndel.org

At the time of the 3.0 release subsurface supports the following dive
computers:

Atomics Aquatics
	Cobalt
Cressi / Zeagle / Mares
	Edy, Nemo Sport
	N2iTiON3
Mares
	Nemo, Nemo Excel, Nemo Apneist,...
	Puck, Puck Air, Nemo Air, Nemo Wide,...
	Darwin, Darwin Air, M1, M2, Airlab
	Icon HD, Icon HD Net Ready, Nemo Wide 2
Oceanic / Aeris / Sherwood / Hollis / Genesis / Tusa (Pelagic)
	VT Pro, Versa Pro, Pro Plus 2, Wisdom, Atmos 2, Atmos AI, Atmos Elite,...
	Veo 250, Veo 180Nx, XR2, React Pro, DG02, Insight,...
	Atom 2.0, VT3, Datamask, Geo, Geo 2.0, Veo 2.0, Veo 3.0, Pro Plus 2.1,
	Compumask, Elite T3, Epic, Manta, IQ-900 (Zen), IQ-950 (Zen Air), IQ-750 (Element II),...
Heinrichs Weikamp
	OSTC, OSTC Mk.2, OSTC 2N
	Frog
Reefnet
	Sensus
	Sensus Pro
	Sensus Ultra
Shearwater
	Predator, Petrel
Suunto
	Solution
	Eon, Solution Alpha and Solution Nitrox/Vario
	Vyper, Cobra, Vytec, Vytec DS, D3, Spyder, Gekko, Mosquito, Stinger, Zoop
	Vyper2, Cobra2, Cobra3, Vyper Air and HelO2
	D9, D6, D4, D9tx, D6i and D4i
Uemis
	Zurich
Uwatec
	Aladin
	Memo Mouse
	Smart, Galileo (infraread)
Zeagle
	N2iTiON 3

